---
layout: post
title: Timeline notes
subtitle: 
publish: true
date: 2019-12-12
---

Here is a map for our upcoming episode of our podcast on the murders of JB Beasley and Tracie Hawlett. Bill Roberts and Robbie Pelham will again be joining me to discuss the murders. If you missed <a href="">Episode 1</a> give it a listen.
<p>Below are the routes traveled July 31 - Aug. 1, 1999 linked to known data points of law enforcement reports, sworn witness statements and phone records from two payphones.
I've linked this map to the data that illustrates the <a href="http://jonkalev.com/bh-timeline/">timeline  and that can be independently accessed here</a>. Im going to use python to analyze the data make it more user-friendly as time allows. Python allows two sets of tools for using GIS: the first is by using python scripts to control ArcGIS, the second is using native python tools. Here is a good intro <a href="http://darribas.org/gds15/"> online course at the University of Liverpool</a> covering basic use of geopandas in spatial data science with GIS, <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HzPSVwyP2Y0"> heres a tutorial on geopandas</a>.<p> 
As time allows I want to take a different approach and use Julia which is better. 
Consider this an experiment in process. The goal is to identify the potential area of a crime scene (assumption the girls were not killed on Herring st.). Then try to spaitally determine where approriate questions should be asked. In other words the FBI looking for a match for soil samples to the mud on the jeans and shoes in a geographic area that is not possible to have been traveled to is a waste of resources. Spatial analysis can prevent such blunders.
<p>Former chief Tony Spivey has stated that the city of Ozark has spent nearly one million dollars in investigating these homicides so its very valuable potentially is to conduct data analysis and distill areas very quickly where resources can be focused. 
  <p> Then there is the more intriguing issue of how we can use artificial / machine intelligence to weight data and potential models that accomodate evidence of how the girls were murdered.
<p>    
The shaded area represents a theoretical crime scene area of 120 square miles based on estimated travel time from the last verified sighting (15 min out) to potential crime scene. Note: I can narrow this in the coming days with adding more data and the map will reflect that as I add it to the spreadsheets. So think fluid, i.e. dont get attached to what you see.
  <p>Data Assumptions:<p>
<ul>
  <li>The last confirmed sighting at 1:21 AM is accurate.</li>
<li>The time it would take to meet and have a consensual sex encounter (JB Beasley) is put at 10 minutes.</li>
<li>Time of death end data point is 2:15 am (sourced from Dr. Wagner/pathologist).</li>
<li>Site of car recovery is not where victims were killed (evidenced from blood patterns in car trunk indicating travel after bodies were in trunk).</li>
<p>
From the 1:21 am ball field sighting, if the police narrative is correct, the two girls would have had to meet McCraney(and possibly others),assuming it was not the individuals they were seen with, immediately after that sighting. They were sighted with two white males (one blond hair), then departed to a secondary crime scene in the purple shaded area, had a sexual encounter, been shot, then returned to Herring avenue. An alternative analysis would be the sexual encounter occured prior to the 1:21 am sighting which is more statistically probable.   
<p>This opens up several possibilities, assume the ball-field sighting and witnesses memory is accurate regarding the time, this branches into two main possibilities or models that fit the evidence. <p>
  1) Beasley would have had a sexual encounter with McCraney in the hour and a half since being sighted at 11:40 pm at the Big Little store. Then on the route home they were stopped or stopped for some reason at the ball field where the payphone wa slocated. At that point they are abducted by the two white males (one with blond hair) seen with them. This would indicate these are the likely perpetrators unless they then left and encountered a third party that is responsible.
  <p>2) Beasley would have had a sexual encounter after 1:21 AM with McCraney which then one would make the same argument as above.<p>
  What the question is in either model is where was Beasley and Hawlett (assuming they stayed together) from 11:50 PM or so until the 1:21 AM ball field sighting.
  
  <p><strong>Fair disclaimer </strong>these are questions the data asks, they are irrespective of our emotions or what our instincts are. Straight-up math issues. Somewhere in the raw data is a pattern that reveals a statitiscal likehood that we can assign weight to different models accomodating known evidence or facts. <strong>It is not what I think or suspect, but what data indicates is possible.</strong><p>
  The purpose of analysis is to tighten these arguments over time and hopefully if new data is obtained by the Ozark police Deaprtment, SBI (state bureau of investyigations) or Mccraney's defense team, athis be used to more accurately determine what could have happened that matches the evidence. This is a completly diffrent approach from how a homicide is typically investigated which follows the time tested approach of who had the motive, the opportunity and means to summarize.
  Additionally I am trying to narrow the specific geo-location of where events coud have occured to eliminate bias in how these questions are asked, or were.
  
  

<figure>
<style>.embed-container {position: relative; padding-bottom: 100%; height: 0; max-width: 100%;} .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container iframe{position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;} small{position: absolute; z-index: 40; bottom: 0; margin-bottom: -15px;}</style><div class="embed-container"><iframe width="800" height="800" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" title="Beasley Hawlett Murders" src="//carroll.maps.arcgis.com/apps/Embed/index.html?webmap=5f35d55d9a604c0ca1b87232c22ebe0b&extent=-85.9148,31.2531,-84.9631,31.6748&home=true&zoom=true&previewImage=false&scale=false&disable_scroll=false&theme=light"></iframe></div>
  <figcaption><strong>Fig.1 - Known Travel Routes</strong></figcaption>
</figure>
<figure>
<style>.embed-container {position: relative; padding-bottom: 100%; height: 0; max-width: 100%;} .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container iframe{position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;} small{position: absolute; z-index: 40; bottom: 0; margin-bottom: -15px;}</style><div class="embed-container"><iframe width="800" height="800" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" title="Route and travel time to field party" src="//carroll.maps.arcgis.com/apps/Embed/index.html?webmap=aed241d5768d4bdaaa115ce7a483b017&extent=-85.5665,31.2155,-85.0954,31.4753&zoom=true&previewImage=false&scale=true&disable_scroll=true&theme=light"></iframe></div>
  <figcaption><strong>Fig.2 - Route to Field / Keg Party</strong></figcaption>
</figure>
<figure>
<style>.embed-container {position: relative; padding-bottom: 100%; height: 0; max-width: 100%;} .embed-container iframe, .embed-container object, .embed-container iframe{position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;} small{position: absolute; z-index: 40; bottom: 0; margin-bottom: -15px;}</style><div class="embed-container"><iframe width="900" height="900" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" title="Secondary Crime Scene" src="//carroll.maps.arcgis.com/apps/Embed/index.html?webmap=d08a9a2be09e44ab8383d8ce9f8eb0bc&extent=-85.9094,31.2853,-85.2478,31.5888&zoom=true&previewImage=false&scale=true&disable_scroll=true&theme=light"></iframe></div>
  <figcaption><strong>Fig.3 - Analysis of potential secondary crime scene</strong></figcaption>
</figure>

<p>
  <iframe src='https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=1Kx6HveAG-PIUcau7DZXcjseRXzToVDvu0lpETPeQ3IQ&font=Default&lang=en&initial_zoom=2&height=700' width='100%' height='700' webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen frameborder='0'></iframe>
